trying to focus on the length and
training. What they've really found is
that
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on a lot of things
that sports performance professionals
comment on. I just see it a little
differently. So, what I want to talk
about today is range of motion. In the
recent, I'd say last two or three years,
there's been a huge fad uh talking about
the lengthened training or long range
training, which really means you're
training a muscle at its most stretched
position. So, like for example, in the
chest press, trying to sort of go down
further or get it more loading at the
bottom. The idea here is that if you go
to fatigue in that range of motion,
there's like an extra stimulus that
creates more growth. Now, of course,
there's been a few studies, some of
which I funded, and I funded this group
of scientists who were very excited
about this. So, they seemed like they
were going to be biased, but they ended
up doing pretty great research, and I
did another video on this, uh,
explaining how they really did the right
thing and showed that when they tested
full range of motion compared to their
just short range training, they did it
with lateral raises, cable versus
weights, um, I'm just using the chest
press just for demonstration purposes,
but trying to focus on the length and
training. What they've really found is
that the results from both ways of doing
it either just isolating the lengthen
part. So like if they're doing laterals,
they're focused, you know, just on the
most stretched portion. So or you could
go even further and stretch your deltoid
across your body and let's say you're
pulling a cable or a band trying to
emphasize that stretch range of motion.
The problem with that line of logic,
like it works and it it it has been
determined with this research that the
results are the same whether you train
full range of motion or you train just
in the stretched portion for growth.
It's kind of silly because if you backst
step here, everyone goes to momentary
muscular fatigue in the weaker range of
motion. The weak range of motion, we
call it that for a reason. It's cuz you
have the least amount of power
production capability there. So like
every set of absolutely every resistance
training exercise was taken to momentary
muscular fatigue at the weakest point.
So making this observation and I'm and
I'm making this video really for
simplicity purposes. I think the whole
talking points it's not stupid. It's
just like so what? Like yeah everybody
goes to fatigue in the weak range for
everything. So whether you're doing just
weak range training or lengthen training
or however many names they want to come
up with it, it's it ends up all being
the same. So I think you can just take
that entire subject and not pay
attention to it because it's just the
same as what we've always been doing.
You always go to fatigue there. And with
variable resistance, and you guys have
seen this chest press video of me
before. I have a couple different
versions of it because the weight
changes with variable resistance. As
soon as I can't get to that high weight
at the top, then the reps just get
shorter and shorter and shorter and
shorter until I can barely move. So,
going to fatigue multiple times. But
notice all that fatigue is in the
lengthened range of motion, the
stretched range of motion, the weak
range of motion. Again, whatever you
want to call it, focus on fatigue. Focus
on full range of motion. I think the
lengthened thing is uh it's just a bit
of a distraction. It's not wrong. It's
just framing the argument in a way where
I think it becomes a lot more
complicated than it needs to be. I hope
this helps. Uh leave a comment if you
think I'm wrong. Leave a also leave a
comment if you think I'm right. I like
those better. But hey, if I'm wrong,
let's discuss it in the comments. Thanks
and I'll see you on the next one. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people. Especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.